# OPTIMIZED-APPROACH-TO-PLOT-COUNTRIES-ON-WORLD-MAP-USING-GENETIC-ALGORITHM-VARYING-MUTATION-RATES
The idea behind using different mutation rate is to approach the way to resolve the problem of Local Optima to some extent, associated with Heuristics based on Evolution.


In operational research and Data Mining, working on meta-heuristics has always been a very tedious work and that complexity increases even further when heuristics are inspired by natural processes belonging to huge list of evolutionary algorithms(EA). In such cases one has to deal with the problem of local optima. One needs to be cautious about the balance with respect to exploration and exploitation in solving the problem under consideration. In this paper, we harness the power of Genetic Algorithm to work on a NP-Hard problem. Our work focuses on how to resolve the problem of local optima in Genetic Algorithm by an optimized approach. This approach focuses on varying the mutation rates while working on the considered problem. The problem taken under consideration is to provide the most optimized path to traverse all the countries of World using latitudes and longitudes of the countries. Such intelligent approach not only provides us the freedom to choose the best mutation-rates to solve our problem but also resolve the problem of local optima by finding out the balance between exploration and exploitation within the search space. We have achieved the fittest value of our problem using the resulted mutation rate of Genetic Algorithm for our problem and further working on the refinement and enhancement of this approach.
